.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/planned--specific-support-new-oss.md, before:

---
name: 'Planned: Specific support new OSs'
about: Test compatibility with new OS.
title: Support new OSs - <OS name & version> - <Specific test name>
labels: level/task, request/operational, type/maintenance
assignees: ''
---

# Description

| Related issue | Epic issue |
|---|---|
| Issue number | Issue number|

| Agent tier | Central components support | OS type |
|-|-|-|
| 1/2/3 | Yes/No | New family/Major/Minor |

# Plan

<!-- Uncomment for QA issue
**QA**

## Considerations

- Testing environment: Deploy the new OS taking into account the following notes:
  - If the Wazuh central components are supported: 1 VM for each architecture supported.
  - If the Wazuh agent is supported: 1 VM for each architecture supported.
  - If the Wazuh central components or the Wazuh agent is not supported, deploy a Debian 12 VM for the non-supported component.
- All testing tasks must be completed for each OS architecture supported.
- The following tasks should be completed in order.

## Tasks

- [ ] Test the Wazuh dashboard one-liner deployment.
  - [ ] Deploy a Wazuh agent using the Wazuh dashboard one-liner feature provided in the Wazuh user interface with the following cases.
    - [ ] Only IP address.
    - [ ] Only FQDN.
    - [ ] IP address, agent name, and group.
- [ ] Add/Update/Check CI
  - [ ] Test the JobFlow testing tool for that specific system.
  - [ ] Add the OS and each architecture to the JobFlow testing tool.
  - [ ] Add the OS and each architecture to the GitHub Deployability and Upgrade release templates.
  - [ ] Add support to the upgrade test pipeline.
- [ ] Add the OS and its supported architectures to the E2E UX Tests spreadsheet (OS sheet).
- [ ] We need to add proper documentation, including adding the new OS version if it belongs to an OS family already added to these tables:
  - https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/quickstart.html#operating-system
  - https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/installation-guide/wazuh-server/index.html#recommended-operating-systems
  - https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/installation-guide/wazuh-indexer/index.html#recommended-operating-systems
  - https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/installation-guide/wazuh-dashboard/index.html#recommended-operating-systems	
-->

<!-- Uncomment for CPPSERVER issue
**CppServer**
- [ ] **Tier 1 agent**: Make sure that VD works properly according to the OS tier.
- [ ] **Central components**: Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.
- [ ] **Central components**: Smoke test that the package works, including installation, upgrade, and its related functionality.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for INDEXER issue
**Indexer**
- [ ] **Central components**: Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.
- [ ] **Central components**: Smoke test that the package works, including installation and upgrade.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for DEVOPS minor issue
**DevOps**
- [ ] Update the allocator images.
- [ ] Update AMI, OVA, or Docker images if needed.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for DEVOPS major/new family issue
**DevOps**
- [ ] **Central components**: Manually allocate two different accessible machines with the new OS. This is the first step for everything else.
- [ ] **No central components**: Deploy an All In One (in our featured OS, probably Amazon Linux) and allocate an accessible machine with the new OS to test the agent. This is the first step for everything else.
- [ ] **Central components**: Review/test the installation assistant using the new OS.
- [ ] Add support in the allocator.
- [ ] Adapt Puppet.
- [ ] Adapt Ansible.
- [ ] Update AMI, OVA, or Docker images if needed.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for DASHBOARD issue
**Dashboard**
- [ ] **Central components**: Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.
- [ ] **Central components**: Smoke test that the package works, including installation and upgrade.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for THREATINTEL issue
**ThreatIntel**
- [ ] Define a plan to support the new OS, particularly with regard to SCA policies. If there's no official CIS policy for that OS version, we either use an existing draft or we adapt a previous version.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for AGENT issue
**Agent**

- [ ] Smoke test that the package works, including installation, upgrade, and its related tier functionality.
- [ ] Check the default settings of previous versions, and adapt them to the new OS version if necessary.
- [ ] Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.

Requested testing code:
:white_circle: Requested.
:black_circle: Not requested.

Result code:
:green_circle: Completed: Test finished with success.
:red_circle: Completed with failures.
:yellow_circle: Completed with known issues.

- **Requested checks by tier:**

|| Tier 1 | Tier 2 | Tier 3 | Result |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Log collection - System events** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **Log collection - Log files** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **Log collection -Command execution** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **FIM - Scheduled** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **FIM - Realtime** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **FIM - Whodata** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **SCA** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Inventory** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **Active response** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Remote upgrade** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Command monitoring** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Wodles** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
-->

Commit message:

fix: adapting the documentation to the new changes

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/planned--specific-support-new-oss.md, after:

---
name: 'Planned: Specific support new OSs'
about: Test compatibility with new OS.
title: Support new OSs - <OS name & version> - <Specific test name>
labels: level/task, request/operational, type/maintenance
assignees: ''
---

# Description

| Related issue | Epic issue |
|---|---|
| Issue number | Issue number|

| Agent tier | Central components support | OS type | Architectures |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1/2/3 | Yes/No | New family/Major/Minor | AMD64/ARM64 |

# Plan

<!-- Uncomment for QA issue
**QA**

## Considerations

- Testing environment: Deploy the new OS taking into account the following notes:
  - If the Wazuh central components are supported: 1 VM for each architecture supported.
  - If the Wazuh agent is supported: 1 VM for each architecture supported.
  - If the Wazuh central components or the Wazuh agent is not supported, deploy a Debian 12 VM for the non-supported component.
- All testing tasks must be completed for each OS architecture supported.
- The following tasks should be completed in order.

## Tasks

- [ ] Test the Wazuh dashboard one-liner deployment.
  - [ ] Deploy a Wazuh agent using the Wazuh dashboard one-liner feature provided in the Wazuh user interface with the following cases.
    - [ ] Only IP address.
    - [ ] Only FQDN.
    - [ ] IP address, agent name, and group.
- [ ] Add/Update/Check CI
  - [ ] Test the JobFlow testing tool for that specific system.
  - [ ] Add the OS and each architecture to the JobFlow testing tool.
  - [ ] Add the OS and each architecture to the GitHub Deployability and Upgrade release templates.
- [ ] Add the OS and its supported architectures to the E2E UX Tests spreadsheet (OS sheet).
- [ ] Add the OS as supported in the compatibility system spreadsheet.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for CPPSERVER issue
**CppServer**
- [ ] **Tier 1 agent**: Make sure that VD works properly according to the OS tier.
- [ ] **Central components**: Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.
- [ ] **Central components**: Smoke test that the package works, including installation, upgrade, and its related functionality.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for INDEXER issue
**Indexer**
- [ ] **Central components**: Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.
- [ ] **Central components**: Smoke test that the package works, including installation and upgrade.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for DEVOPS minor issue
**DevOps**
- [ ] Update the allocator images.
- [ ] Update AMI, OVA, or Docker images if needed.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for DEVOPS major/new family issue
**DevOps**
- [ ] **Central components**: Manually allocate two different accessible machines with the new OS. This is the first step for everything else.
- [ ] **No central components**: Deploy an All In One (in our featured OS, probably Amazon Linux) and allocate an accessible machine with the new OS to test the agent. This is the first step for everything else.
- [ ] **Central components**: Review/test the installation assistant using the new OS.
- [ ] Add support in the allocator.
- [ ] Adapt Puppet.
- [ ] Adapt Ansible.
- [ ] Update AMI, OVA, or Docker images if needed.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for DASHBOARD issue
**Dashboard**
- [ ] **Central components**: Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.
- [ ] **Central components**: Smoke test that the package works, including installation and upgrade.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for THREATINTEL issue
**ThreatIntel**
- [ ] Define a plan to support the new OS, particularly with regard to SCA policies. If there's no official CIS policy for that OS version, we either use an existing draft or we adapt a previous version.
-->

<!-- Uncomment for AGENT issue
**Agent**

- [ ] Smoke test that the package works, including installation, upgrade, and its related tier functionality.
- [ ] Check the default settings of previous versions, and adapt them to the new OS version if necessary.
- [ ] Add support for the new OS to the GitHub Actions package builder.

Requested testing code:
:white_circle: Requested.
:black_circle: Not requested.

Result code:
:green_circle: Completed: Test finished with success.
:red_circle: Completed with failures.
:yellow_circle: Completed with known issues.

- **Requested checks by tier:**

|| Tier 1 | Tier 2 | Tier 3 | Result |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Log collection - System events** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **Log collection - Log files** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **Log collection -Command execution** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **FIM - Scheduled** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **FIM - Realtime** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **FIM - Whodata** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **SCA** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Inventory** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | |
| **Active response** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Remote upgrade** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Command monitoring** | :white_circle: | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | |
| **Wodles** | :white_circle: | :black_circle: | :black_circle: | |
-->
