# MySQL Server integration


|   |   |
|---|---|
| event.module | mysql |
| event.dataset | mysql.error, mysql.slowlog |

The MySQL module is designed to collect, parse, and analyze logs generated by [MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/) Server, offering insights into the operation and performance of the database server. It focuses on two primary types of logs:
  - **MySQL Error logs:** These logs provide a record of mysqld's startup and shutdown times and include diagnostic messages such as errors, warnings, and notes that occur throughout the server's operation. Essential for maintaining the operational health of the MySQL server, the error logs are used for routine diagnostics and troubleshooting. For example, when mysqld detects a table requiring automatic checking or repair, it logs a message in the error log.
  - **MySQL Slow Query logs:** These logs consist of SQL statements that take more than `long_query_time` seconds to execute and require at least `min_examined_row_limit` rows to be examined. Slow query logs are a valuable resource in optimizing database performance, as they enable the identification and improvement of inefficient queries.

By effectively processing these logs, the MySQL module serves as a powerful tool for administrators to monitor server performance, diagnose issues, and optimize database operations.


## Compatibility

The integration was tested with MySQL server logs from version 5.7 and 8.0

## Configuration

This integration uses the logcollector source localfile to ingest the logs from `/var/log/mysql/error.log` and `/var/log/mysql/mysql-slow.log` (the location of the files can be configured in the localfile configuration).
Adding to the ossec.conf file in the monitored agent the following blocks:

```xml
<localfile>
  <log_format>multi-line-regex</log_format>
  <!-- Edit location to appropriate path if needed -->
  <location>/var/log/mysql/error.log</location>
  <multiline_regex>^\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}.\d{6}Z|^\d{6} \d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}</multiline_regex>
</localfile>

<localfile>
  <log_format>multi-line-regex</log_format>
  <!-- Edit location to appropriate path if needed -->
  <location>/var/log/mysql/mysql-slow.log</location>
  <multiline_regex>^# Time:</multiline_regex>
</localfile>
```


## Schema

## Decoders

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| decoder/mysql-slowlog/0 | Decoder for MySQL Server Slow Query logs |
| decoder/mysql-error/0 | Decoder for MySQL Server error logs |
## Rules

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
## Filters

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
## Changelog

| Version | Description | Details |
|---|---|---|
| 0.0.1-dev | Created integration for MySQL | [#17404](https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh/pull/17404) |
