docs/ref/modules/vulnerability-scanner/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration 

The **Vulnerability Scanner** has a dedicated configuration block with minimal options to configure. The module is simple and works out of the box and it does not require specific settings. The module performs the detection of vulnerabilities and then delegates the responsiblity of indexing to another module.

```xml
<vulnerability-detection>
    <enabled>yes</enabled>
    <index-status>yes</index-status>
    <feed-update-interval>60m</feed-update-interval>
    <!--<offline-url>file:///home/vagrant/content_custom.json</offline-url>-->
</vulnerability-detection>
```

**feed-update-interval**: Default and minimum value, 60 min.

**offline-url**: Option hidden by default to generate a CVE database from offline content. It won't be updated.

## Connection to Wazuh Indexer

As mentioned above, the Vulnerability Scanner delegates the indexing to the Indexer Connector module.

- Default Indexer Connector configuration block
```xml
  <indexer>
    <enabled>yes</enabled>
    <hosts>
      <host>https://0.0.0.0:9200</host>
    </hosts>
    <ssl>
      <certificate_authorities>
        <ca>/etc/filebeat/certs/root-ca.pem</ca>
      </certificate_authorities>
      <certificate>/etc/filebeat/certs/filebeat.pem</certificate>
      <key>/etc/filebeat/certs/filebeat-key.pem</key>
    </ssl>
  </indexer>
```

It is important to verify the status of the Wazuh Indexer **GET /_cluster/health**

- e.g. Response
```json
{
  "cluster_name": "wazuh-cluster",
  "status": "green",
  "timed_out": false,
  "number_of_nodes": 1,
  "number_of_data_nodes": 1,
  "discovered_master": true,
  "discovered_cluster_manager": true,
  "active_primary_shards": 15,
  "active_shards": 15,
  "relocating_shards": 0,
  "initializing_shards": 0,
  "unassigned_shards": 0,
  "delayed_unassigned_shards": 0,
  "number_of_pending_tasks": 0,
  "number_of_in_flight_fetch": 0,
  "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": 0,
  "active_shards_percent_as_number": 100
}
```

**Currently the module does not allow insecure connection, so it is important to verify carefully the indexer connector configuration**

## Data to index

The **Vulnerability Scanner** receives operating system and package events that will be processed against a CVE database and hotfix information (only for Windows) to detect vulnerabilities that will be indexed through the indexer connector.

Commit message:

CL:
* Improved some descriptions
* Expanding configuration section
* Adding indexing and deletion capabilities in the test tool section

docs/ref/modules/vulnerability-scanner/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration 

The **Vulnerability Scanner** has a dedicated configuration block with minimal options to configure. The module is simple and works out of the box and it does not require specific settings. The module performs the detection of vulnerabilities and then delegates the responsiblity of indexing to another module.

All the XML configuration blocks mentioned in this section are present in the main configuration file **/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf**.

```xml
<vulnerability-detection>
    <enabled>yes</enabled>
    <index-status>yes</index-status>
    <feed-update-interval>60m</feed-update-interval>
    <!--<offline-url>file:///home/vagrant/content_custom.json</offline-url>-->
</vulnerability-detection>
```

**feed-update-interval**: Default and minimum value, 60 min.

**offline-url**: Option hidden by default to generate a CVE database from offline content. It won't be updated.

## Connection to Wazuh Indexer

As mentioned above, the **Vulnerability Scanner** delegates the indexing to the Indexer Connector module. It receives OS and package events that will be processed against a local CVE database and hotfix information (only for Windows) to detect vulnerabilities that will be indexed through the indexer connector. 

- Default Indexer Connector configuration block
```xml
  <indexer>
    <enabled>yes</enabled>
    <hosts>
      <host>https://0.0.0.0:9200</host>
    </hosts>
    <ssl>
      <certificate_authorities>
        <ca>/etc/filebeat/certs/root-ca.pem</ca>
      </certificate_authorities>
      <certificate>/etc/filebeat/certs/filebeat.pem</certificate>
      <key>/etc/filebeat/certs/filebeat-key.pem</key>
    </ssl>
  </indexer>
```

It is important to verify the green status of the Wazuh Indexer **GET /_cluster/health**. 

- e.g. Response
```json
{
  "cluster_name": "wazuh-cluster",
  "status": "green",
  "timed_out": false,
  "number_of_nodes": 1,
  "number_of_data_nodes": 1,
  "discovered_master": true,
  "discovered_cluster_manager": true,
  "active_primary_shards": 15,
  "active_shards": 15,
  "relocating_shards": 0,
  "initializing_shards": 0,
  "unassigned_shards": 0,
  "delayed_unassigned_shards": 0,
  "number_of_pending_tasks": 0,
  "number_of_in_flight_fetch": 0,
  "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": 0,
  "active_shards_percent_as_number": 100
}
```

**Currently the module does not allow insecure connection, so it is important to verify carefully the indexer connector configuration**

The connection can be easily tested using the CURL command line with the right arguments. Once again, remember the module does not support insecure connection, so using the **-k** option won't help to properly configure the **Indexer Connector** component. 

```console
curl --cacert <root_CA_path> --cert <cert_path> --key <key_path> https://<indexer-ip>:9200/_cluster/health
```
